import { css } from '@emotion/css';
import { Body, Subtitle, Link } from '@leafygreen-ui/typography';
import GuidelineImage from 'components/GuidelineImage';
import { CDN } from 'utils/routes';
import { mq } from 'utils/mediaQuery';

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-1@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    margin-top: 24px;
    height: 531px;
    ${mq({
      width: ['auto', 'auto', 'auto', '1319px'],
    })}
  `}
/>

## Setting type and spacing

The foundation of our typographic system is a 4px baseline grid, which you
should use to align typography along with any UI element. (Vertically centered
elements inside buttons, or rows, are exceptions and don't need to align to
the 4px grid.)

[Learn how to setup this grid in Figma.](https://www.figma.com/best-practices/everything-you-need-to-know-about-layout-grids/baseline-grids/)

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-2@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 309px;
  `}
/>

Use the spacer blocks included in LeafyGreen as a guide for more general
spacing.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-3@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 113px;
  `}
/>

Type and icons should be spaced using by incrments of 4px. Other elements
should usually be spaced by increments of 8px.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-4@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 476px;
  `}
/>

Space elements by logical groupings, so that elements that go together are
closer than those which are not.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-5@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 415px;
  `}
/>

## Hierarchy

The smallest font size we use is 12px. Use this font size sparingly. Its main
purpose is for disclaimer text.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-6@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 342px;
  `}
/>

We also use Akzidenz-Grotesk (AG) at 12px in all caps and at a medium weight
for overline text, breadcrumbs, labels, badges, or our smallest button text.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-7@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 343px;
  `}
/>

We have 2 variants for body copy. Body 1 is 14px in size and is primarily used
in our products. Try to keep the line-length of this body copy under 700px
wide for optimal readability. Body 2 is 16px in size and is primarily used in
non-product settings, like University or Documentation. Use AG medium for
emphasis in body copy or as a reference to a section of our product.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-8@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 278px;
  `}
/>

AG medium at body size can also be used for emphasis, as a subtitle in body
copy, or as a label within a form.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-9@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 232px;
  `}
/>

Below is an example of Body 2, which as mentioned above is primarily used in
non-product settings, like University or Documentation.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-10@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 294px;
  `}
/>

AG at 18px medium weight is used as a subtitle. Subtitles are useful if the
element or paragraph you’re introducing already have medium weight body sized
copy. Try to make subtitles and titles as concise as possible, so that they
don’t run on or require a line-break.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-11@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 308px;
  `}
/>

H2 is AG at 32px at medium weight, and is the largest title you can use in
product settings (excluding Education and marketing). This is the primary
title found on most Atlas pages.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-12@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 542px;
  `}
/>

In some instance providing an even larger title might be useful or necessary,
such as in documentation where there are many layers of nesting within
content. In these scenarios (outside of Product) you can use our largest H1
title which is 60px in size with a regular weight.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-13@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 422px;
  `}
/>

While AG is used in almost all copy throughout our products Source Code Pro is
used to display code. In the code component snippet below. Source Code Pro is
used at 14px at a regular weight. Syntax coloring can be accessed in Sketch
via Plugins > Syntax Highlighter. (You can download the plugin here.) The
syntax highlighter theme used in light mode is Docco and Agate is used for
dark mode, but feel free to use whichever theme you prefer, since ultimately
these will change in production code. (In production we use highlight.js.)

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-14@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 251px;
  `}
/>

Source Code Pro can also be used inline with body copy both at 14px and 16px
to reference code.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-15@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 374px;
  `}
/>

## Links

The most common usage of a link is inline within body copy. When this is the
case, use the font color #007CAD (Base Blue). If the link opens in a new
tab/window use a “new tab/window” icon to indicate that the link opens
somewhere new. If the link redirects on the same page the user is on there is
no need to append the icon.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-16@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 349px;
  `}
/>

Standalone links can be accompanied with an arrow to give users an extra
visual queue. If the link is both standalone and opens in a new tab or window
then use the “open in new tab” icon.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-17@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 292px;
  `}
/>

Do not use this arrow on long lists of links.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-18@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    width: auto;
    height: 232px;
  `}
/>

## Accessibility requirements

When working with type, make sure that your copy passes accessibility
standards. [You can check this by installing Stark, a contrast checker plugin for Figma.](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/732603254453395948/Stark)

Remember the **4.5:1 contrast rule**. If the contrast between the color of your text and its background is 4.5:1 or
higher it’s accessible; if it’s lower it’s not.

<GuidelineImage
  imageURL={`${CDN}/images/new-guidelines/type/type-guidelines-19@3x.png`}
  className={css`
    ${mq({
      width: ['auto', 'auto', 'auto', '818px'],
    })}
    height: 324px;
  `}
/>
